# Project 6
Low-level programs written in symbolic machine language are called assembly programs.
Programmers rarely write programs directly in machine language. Rather, programmers who
develop high-performance programs (e.g. system software, mission-critical apps, and software for
embedded systems) often inspect the assembly code generated by compilers. They do so in order
to understand how their high-level code is actually deployed to the hardware, and how that code
can be optimized for gaining better performance. One of the players in this process is the program
that translates code written in a symbolic machine language into code written in binary machine
language. This program is called an assembler.
# Objective
Develop an assembler that translates programs written in the Hack assembly language into Hack
binary code. This version of the assembler assumes that the source assembly code is valid. Error
checking, reporting and handling can be added to later versions of the assembler, but are not part
of this project.
# Resources
The main tool needed for completing this project is the programming language in which you will
implement your assembler, following the specifications and APIs described in the relevant lecture
and book chapter 6. In addition, you will need the supplied assembler, for comparing the binary
code generated by your assembler to the code generated by the supplied assembler. And, if you
wish to execute the translated code and inspect its behavior, you can do so using the CPU
emulator.
# Contract
When given to your assembler as a command-line argument, a Prog.asm file containing a valid
Hack assembly language program should be translated correctly into Hack binary code, and stored
in a file named Prog.hack, located in the same folder as the source file (if a file by this name exists,
it is overridden). The output produced by your assembler must be identical to the output produced
by the supplied assembler.
# Development plan
We suggest building and testing the assembler in two stages. First, write a basic assembler that
translates programs that contain no symbolic references (i.e., neither variables nor labels). Then
extend your assembler with symbol handling capabilities.
Test programs